# Overview
Essay writing is an important method to evaluate student learning and performance. It is also time-consuming for educators to grade by hand. Automated Writing Evaluation (AWE) systems can score essays to supplement an educator’s other efforts. AWEs also allow students to receive regular and timely feedback on their writing. However, due to their costs, many advancements in the field are not widely available to students and educators. Open-source solutions to assess student writing are needed to reach every community with these important educational tools.
In this competition, you will work with the largest open-access writing dataset aligned to current standards for student-appropriate assessments. Can you help produce an open-source essay scoring algorithm that improves upon the original Automated Student Assessment Prize (ASAP) competition hosted in 2012?
Competition host Vanderbilt University is a private research university in Nashville, Tennessee. For this competition, Vanderbilt has partnered with The Learning Agency Lab, an Arizona-based independent nonprofit focused on developing the science of learning-based tools and programs for the social good.
To ensure the results of this competition are widely available, winning solutions will be released as open source. More robust and accessible AWE options will help more students get the frequent feedback they need and provide educators with additional support, especially in underserved districts.
Previous efforts to develop open-source AWEs have been limited by small datasets that were not nationally diverse or focused on common essay formats. The first Automated Essay Scoring competition scored student-written short-answer responses, however, this is a writing task not often used in the classroom. To improve upon earlier efforts, a more expansive dataset that includes high-quality, realistic classroom writing samples was required. Further, to broaden the impact, the dataset should include samples across economic and location populations to mitigate the potential of algorithmic bias
### contest URL:https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/learning-agency-lab-automated-essay-scoring-2
